# astack
This is a demonstration of radio interferometric imaging techniques based on A-stacking.

## Demos
Three demo scripts are supplied:

1. [Forward calculation `demo_astack_forward_calculation.m`](https://github.com/andreyoung/astack#forward-calculation-sky-to-visibility)
2. [Visibility Domain Source Subtraction `demo_astack_vdss_clean.m`](https://github.com/andreyoung/astack#visibility-domain-source-subtraction-vdss-clean)
3. [Image Domain Source Subtraction `demo_astack_idss_clean.m`](https://github.com/andreyoung/astack#image-domain-source-subtraction-idss-clean)

along with an example input dataset which provides array layout and radiation pattern data for a toy model of the LOFAR LBA station at Onsala, Sweden.

### Forward calculation (sky-to-visibility)
This script calculates visibilities from a random generated sky model based on the given input data, and produces a plot which shows the accuracy of the calculation as a function of the number of terms used to describe the direction- and baseline-dependent radiation patterns of the array.

An intermediate result produced by this script is the full exact direction- and baseline-dependent gain matrix B in eq (7) from [1], as well as the direction-dependent expansion functions (f_i) and baseline-dependent weighting coefficients (a_i) in eq (17). These results are required by the source subtraction demonstration scripts.

### Visibility Domain Source Subtraction (VDSS-CLEAN)
This script simulates measured visibilities from a random generated sky model based on the given input data, and then performs a CLEAN-like operation by subtracting source contributions in the visibility plane. See Section 6.2 in [1] for more details.

This script requires data generated by `demo_astack_forward_calculation.m`.

### Image Domain Source Subtraction (IDSS-CLEAN)
This script simulates measured visibilities from a random generated sky model based on the given input data, and then performs a CLEAN-like operation by subtracting source contributions in the image domain. See Section 4.1 in [1] for more details.

This script requires data generated by `demo_astack_forward_calculation.m`.

## Requirements
This project was developed to run in Octave 3.8.2 and requires the following octave-forge packages:

* statistics 1.2.3

The code may also work on earlier versions of the software.

Although not fully supported, the code should also run in Matlab; the example input data set is also provided in Matlab v6 binary format.


## References
[[1] A. Young, S. J. Wijnholds, T. D. Carozzi, R. Maaskant, M. V. Ivashina and D. B. Davidson, "Efficient correction for both direction-dependent and baseline-dependent effects in interferometric imaging: An A-stacking framework," *Astronomy & Astrophysics*, forthcoming, 2015](http://dx.doi.org/10.1051/0004-6361/201425492).
